by Rapula MoatshePretoria - EFF leader Julius Malema had vowed that party members would shut down Pretoria on Wednesday and they did, turning the heart of the capital into a sea of red. It was a day when drama played itself out as the party staged the march planned to dethrone President Jacob Zuma and in which it made other demands on the government.Despite the presence of the DA and Save South Africa, EFF supporters were at the forefront of the march, visible in their red colours in almost every street in the city.The march was not devoid of controversy as many shop windows and doors were either smashed or damaged.Businesses were hard hit after being forced to shut their doors. The EFF also brought traffic to a standstill.Police manned almost all intersections in the CBD.Motorists were turned away while entering the city centre, where EFF members clashed with taxi drivers near Bosman Street. Supporters were attempting to turn back taxis when drivers dared them to touch their vehicles.Buses stopped running for safety reasons, leaving commuters in the lurch. This came after a bus belonging to Tshwane Bus Service was pelted with stones and damaged. A police chopper hovered over buildings in the city as marchers thronged the streets.Members held a night vigil at Church Square where Malema addressed them.The EFF was also demanding free tertiary education, the immediate resignation of NPA boss Shaun Abrahams and the release of the state capture report.Metro police department spokesperson Senior Superintendent Isaac Mahamba said there were reports of people taking advantage of the marches to cause disturbances in Paul Kruger Street next to Pretoria Zoo. Four people who threw stones at motorists were arrested.Metro police and the SAPS had about 1 000 officers in the CBD, and by midday, police declared the city dysfunctional.Later, when the high court ruled that the state capture report had to be released by 5pm on Wednesday, Malema said the report would reveal how the Guptas had bought South Africa for themselves. It will confirm everything we've been saying, he said.Malema gloated over the EFF victory in court, telling his supporters to be proud of their leaders because they weren't cowards. It's the EFF that went to fetch the public protector s report and gave it to the people of South Africa. It's the EFF that made Zuma pay back the money, he said.Malema also used the opportunity to reiterate the call for land grabs. We will never rest until land is returned into the hands of the rightful owners. No white man owns land. When you see a piece of land, occupy it; that land belongs to you. If it means going to jail for demanding our land, let it be so; we aren't scared to demand our land. He said the EFF was fighting against Zuma because he was undermining African leadership. O re tshegisa ka makgowa (he's making us a laughing stock to white people). &quot;We will deal with Zuma first and then our next target will be monopoly capital. Malema said that only the EFF had the potential to collapse the ANC. The large EFF crowd later left Church Square to march to the Union Buildings but were met with resistance from police well placed to defend the seat of the government. EFF supporters demanded entry to the premises in their bid to get Zuma to resign.But police formed a shield inside the gate and used rubber bullets, stun grenades and water cannons to disperse the crowd.This occurred before the EFF leadership could arrive. When they did, Malema calmed the situation down by ordering his supporters to retreat and refrain from fighting with the police. After an hour of unsuccessfully negotiating with the police to gain entry inside the Union Buildings, he hurled insults at the men in blue. You're just as guilty as Zuma because you're protecting him while you, as police, should be enforcing the law and arresting him for allowing rich business people to capture our country. Malema ordered his supporters to march back to Church Square. It was then that most started to trickle out of the city centre. Shouts, the odd sound of a police helicopter and distant sirens could be heard as evening descended, but calm appeared to be returning.Meanwhile, Boer Republicans spokesperson Piet Rudolph wrote to the office of the national police commissioner protesting about the setting alight of the Paul Kruger statue on Church Square earlier in the day and depicted in video footage circulating on social media.In Cape Town, dozens of people protested outside St George s Cathedral in the CBD against state capture and corruption.The protest was organised by civil-society group South Africa First Forum.Co-founder Crispin Sonn said the forum was trying to mobilise people and find a voice for the country by conducting a peaceful protest. We're opposed to bad leadership, and the president is an obstacle towards an inclusive society, he said.Also present was former ANC MP Vytjie Mentor and former Hawks boss Anwa Dramat. Additional reporting by ANA