Durban - Glaring cracks are appearing in the ANC-led tripartite alliance, say an analyst.This as the biggest public sector union, the National Education Health and Allied Workers Union (Nehawu), on Tuesday broke ranks and called on President Jacob Zuma to resign.But the ANC in KwaZulu-Natal has describe the Nehawu call as nonsensical .Nehawu, which wants Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa to succeed Zuma, made its call despite the Congress of South African Trade Unions (Cosatu) urging its affiliates not to pronounce on the ANC succession debate. It shows there are fractures within Cosatu. It (Cosatu) could not reach consensus on the matter (last month) so we have since seen affiliates go on their own, political analyst Ralph Mathekga said.Apart from Nehawu, the National Union of Mineworkers and South African Democratic Teachers Unions have endorsed Ramaphosa to take over from Zuma in line with the party s tradition of its deputy succeeding the president.However, the ANC leagues and the so-called premier league chairmen of the Free State, Mpumalanga and North West want AU chairwoman Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma to become the ruling party s first woman leader.Mathekga said the turn of events was an interesting development, especially because one of the key blocs that pushed Zuma to the Union Buildings was now divided.Mathekga said this took place as Zuma was fighting on all fronts; against the release of the public protector s state capture report, and as the SACP had already broken ranks with him. When you fight on all fronts, it is difficult to consolidate yourself, he said.Mathekga added these cracks within Cosatu did not help Zuma because the labour federation s president, Sdumo Dlamini, was extremely not capable to hold the centre .Nehawu said Zuma s leadership was untenable and there was declining hope in his government. Everything considered, including the deepening socio-economic crisis, lack of strategic oversight and leadership in government, declining hope among our people and the ever-swirling scandalous revelations of corruption, the NEC has come to a conclusion that it can no longer be denied that the leadership of President Jacob Zuma in government is now untenable, the union said after its central executive committee meeting. We are making this call whilst being painfully conscious of the poisoned climate of factional contestation within the ANC that would make it difficult for the ANC to arrive at a broadly supported solution to the current tragic impasse. Nonetheless, as Nehawu, we expect the ANC and President Jacob Zuma to rise to the occasion in the interests of the ANC and the masses of our people, the union said.But on Tuesday night the ANC in KwaZulu-Natal dismissed Nehawu s calls, saying the tradition of the deputy succeeding the president was not automatic and depended on conditions of the time. It does not mean you (deputy president) inherently succeed the president. It has to be done through a discussion, spokesman Mdumiseni Ntuli said. What we don t want is to be imposed a view as opposed to engaged to accept comrade Cryil Ramaphosa. To go public negates the very tradition ... the organisation discusses your suitability, Ntuli said.He said prevailing conditions had led to Nelson Mandela taking over from OR Tambo in the 1990s, and later Thabo Mbeki and then Zuma. It has been a phase of struggle and quality of an individual. It must be a matter to be raised for discussion. It can t be made automatic, Ntuli added.He said the ANC in KZN did not support the view held in some quarters that Zuma should step down before 2019. We do not accept the view that Zuma must be gone by 2019. It is nonsense, Ntuli said.Mathekga said even though Nehawu wanted Zuma out, it knew he would not leave until he finished his term. They are trying to push him out because they fear he might have strong influence on who succeeds him. This is strategy. However, Mathekga said the saga was likely to see Zuma s backers consolidate their support before the 2017 elective conference.He said Zuma was likely to finish his term as his detractors were unlikely to sustain their campaign they tended to focus on one issue at a time and fizzle out.