Durban - A tireless champion of the SA Navy and its Durban base, Manny Gounden, 67, has died. Gounden, of Sea Cow Lake, was to be cremated on Friday. His daughter, Maheshni Gounden, said the family were heartbroken. He was admitted to uMhlanga Hospital, a week ago after suffering organ failure and was on life support machines. He joined the navy 46 years ago at the age of 21. In an interview with the Daily News in 2013, Gounden said: I was young, fit and eager to don the uniform of the South African Navy and to serve the country. I was among the first batch of 31 recruits from Durban. The battalion was born out of a request by the Natal Indian Ex-Servicemen Legion and the executive committee of the South African Indian Council for the navy to provide training for Indian recruits. Gounden soon became the public relations officer for the navy in Durban and nationally. He retired three years ago but continued to assist with publicity and did media work. Gounden is survived by his wife, Kogie, his daughter and son, Roland.His body will lay in state at his home in Bakerville Gardens, Sea Cow Lake, and then proceeded to Clare Estate Crematorium.Friends paid tribute on Facebook: Alan Khan, who posted pictures of Gounden on his page, wrote: What a sad way to start my Thursday morning, receiving news from Yashika Ramautar that my dear friend Manny Gounden has passed on. He was a proud member of the South African Navy. Manny loved his family, he loved his friends, he loved the navy and he loved our country. I got to interview him on my show last year and it was fascinating to hear his life s story. Thank you for making our world a better place. Yashika Ramautar: Just heartbroken that we have lost such a wonderful soul. Your wise words and love will forever be etched in my mind... Luewellyn Pillay: He was a wealth of information. A monument to values of a time gone. Kim Bishop: I had the pleasure and privilege of meeting him whilst I worked as a doctor in the SANDF, and so always enjoyed interacting with him. He was always so pleasant. Myesri Moodley: Manny was always the positive energy wherever he went and was so proud of his history and heritage. What a legend Durban has lost. Logie Naidoo: Manny was such an affable human being. His pleasantness was his hallmark. Will miss this dear soul. RIP my friend. Robin Sewlal: An astonishingly awful week ace movie maker Junaid Ahmed, media freedom activist Jeanette Minnie and now Manny. He was always prim, proper, respectful and never put himself first. Go well. Len Heine: RIP Mannie. Had the pleasure of working with him in the SA Navy, always professional and passionate. You will be missed condolences to the family. Sonny Pillay: Manny my boyhood friend was a thorough gentlemen. Just can t believe he is no more and I will sure miss him. Dave Coles: What a gentleman. I will truly miss his warm smile and his gentle spirit. Someone I highly respected. 