Johannesburg - Eskom boss Brian Molefe became emotional and wiped away tears on Thursday as he responded to allegations levelled against him in the State of Capture report. Molefe said if there was any wrong-doing found in Eskom coal deals signed with a Gupta-linked company, he would take full responsibility. Molefe said it would be for him to resign, not the Eskom board or the Minister of Public Enterprises, Lynne Brown. The power utility chief executive was responding to concerns contained in the long-awaited public protector s report on state capture, which revealed that the state-owned enterprise might have repeatedly broken the law to accommodate the Gupta family-owned Tegeta Resources. The damning report, compiled by former public protector Thuli Madonsela, said Eskom had neglected its public mandate and prejudiced mining multi-national Glencore for Optimum Coal Mine and Optimum Coal Holdings to get into business rescue. The report said Eskom had also awarded a contract for the supply of coal to its Arnot, Majuba and Hendrina power stations to Tegeta, to enable the firm to purchase all shares in Optimum Coal Holdings. However, Molefe said he &shy;differed with the report, saying Madonsela did not give him or Eskom executives a chance to explain themselves, as the constitution required. My gripe lies in the public protector never giving me a chance to explain myself. I would have told her our side if she asked for it. But she cancelled our meeting. She sent us a list of questions the day before she left office, and we gave her 120 files in 20 boxes that she asked for, Molefe said. In my case, the public protector has painted me with a corrupt brush. During the investigation, my children will be taunted at school, and all that when I think the basis of what she says about myself and Eskom is incorrect. I need time to apply my mind to this matter. Madonsela s report found that the Eskom board may have violated the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) by approving, at a hastily convened, after-ours meeting, an advance payment of more than R659 million to Tegeta when it needed funds to buy out Optimum Coal Holdings. (Tegeta) wanted us to prepay for this, and we agreed regarding a three months supply, and they supplied the coal for three months in terms of the prepaid coal, Molefe said. They do not owe us money from the prepaid deal. I do not understand what the public protector means about it in her report. The public protector never called me or the CFO to come and give our version of events. Molefe said he saw media reports on Thursday morning that the Eskom board should resign. He said he would weigh his options. I have agonised the whole of last night on what we could have done differently, and I believe nothing. I just want to say I never had the opportunity to explain what I have explained now, Molefe said. I do not agree that the board has to resign over the Glencore decision. I will take responsibility. I do not think my minister should resign over the decision of the R530 per ton contract. The president should also not resign because of that. I will resign before he does. Eskom had earlier reported a 10.5% increase in revenue year-on-year to R97.1bn for the six months ended in September. African News Agency